Adding general subnational approach information (#1451)
ihmeuw/vivarium_research: docs/source/models/concept_models/vivarium_nutrition_optimization/kids/concept_model.rst

Subnational Approach
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In order to include SQ-LNS targeting by location, we are switching to 
use a subnational approach for most data in Wave 3. However, rather 
than model all subnational locations separately, simulants 
will just be assigned to a subnational location within their primary 
location, and have input data pulled for the subnational location instead. 
Unless otherwise specified in the model request table below, the data outputs 
do not need to stratified by subnational location.

Initializing Simulant's Locations
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Simulants will be obtained from the pregnancy sim, the same as in prior 
waves. These simulants will already have a country location. The pregnancy 
simulation is only run at the national level.

When these simulants are loaded into the child simulation, they will be 

> assigned a subnational location within their country. Here is the data 

Reviewer: I think it's worth thinking about whether it is best to assign sublocation at birth versus at six months of age...

I think if we are not planning on modeling the first 6 months of life at the subnational level AND assign sublocation at birth, then we won't get the sublocation-specific mortality rates correct in the first six months of life, so our population distribution of sublocations will be off by the time the simulated population ages to six months (basically we will overestimate the population size of the high-mortality sublocations and vise versa because we won't have modeled corresponding mortality rates but rather just the overall average rate). So I think if we want to assign sublocation at birth, then we should also model everything, including LBWSG, at the subnational level.

Otherwise, we could use the average of the population weights between the 1-5 and 6-11 month age groups to initialize a subpopulation starting at six months of age? Maybe they are not that different so it won't matter, but I think worth looking into!

Author: Marking this as a topic for the MNCH RT tomorrow. I have compared the birth to 6 months ages groups to facilitate our conversation.

for the `percent of simulants assigned to each subnational location by sex <https://github.com/ihmeuw/vivarium_research_nutrition_optimization/blob/ff08145109e1434669f08afe702ffc5e3d45a6c2/data_prep/sqlns_subnational/subnational_percents.csv>`_. Note that all 3 countries are included 

> in this csv file. 

Reviewer: Noting that these were calculated based on birth age group, may want to be updated to ~6 months based on comment above.

Data Inputs: 
^^^^^^^^^^^^

> 

Reviewer 2: How man subnationals are there going to be? If we are making artifacts for all subnational locations, that might get tiresome to keep track

Author: A lot! Nigeria as 37 locations. The others have less but it will be a lot. We should touch base on this concern in the concept model meeting Friday since this is a key part of our planned approach.

Once a simulant is assigned to a subnational location, all GBD data used 

> will be subnational specific data. Artifacts will be made for all subnational 

Reviewer: "all GBD data used"... I was thinking that it might be hard to have subnational specific data for LBWSG (because it would depend on data from the pregnancy sim so we would need to add subnational locations to the pregnancy sim as well) so we were considering only using it for >6 months once simulants are eligible for SQLNS. Also LBWSG PAF calculations are a pain and we could avoid recalculating at the subnational level too.

I think it's fine if we want to take this on, but I think we'll need to add some of these considerations into the strategy if that's the approach we'd like to take!

Author: Leaving until we are aligned on the age groups, but I think this will change to clarify that LBWSG comes from pregnancy sim and will be national along with LBWSG PAFs.

geographies. We will also regenerate data for all custom made datasets, 
such as wasting transitions, PAFs, and CGF correlation, at the subnational 
level. 

Wasting coverage and efficacy data will continue to be national only. Also, 

> for all scenarios other that targeted SQ-LNS, roll out of interventions will 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for all scenarios other than targeted SQ-LNS, roll out of interventions will 
```

be the same for all subnational locations. Efficacy of interventions will also 

> be assumed to be the same for all subnational locations. 

Reviewer: We are able to consider effect modification of SQLNS by subnational location based on the meta-analysis, which I think would be worth including

Author: Agreed, removed statement for now.

than model all subnational locations separately, simulants 
will just be assigned to a subnational location within their primary 
location, and have input data pulled for the subnational location instead. 
Unless otherwise specified in the model request table below, the data outputs 
do not need to stratified by subnational location.

Initializing Simulant's Locations
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Simulants will be obtained from the pregnancy sim, the same as in prior 
waves. These simulants will already have a country location. The pregnancy 
simulation is only run at the national level.

When these simulants are loaded into the child simulation, they will be 
assigned a subnational location within their country. Here is the data 
for the `percent of simulants assigned to each subnational location by sex <https://github.com/ihmeuw/vivarium_research_nutrition_optimization/blob/ff08145109e1434669f08afe702ffc5e3d45a6c2/data_prep/sqlns_subnational/subnational_percents.csv>`_. Note that all 3 countries are included 
in this csv file. 

Since LBWSG is done nationally, there is a risk in assigning locations 
at birth that they will be incorrect by 6 months of age. Subnational 

> locations with higher LBWSG should have more deaths, which will not be captured here. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
locations with less optimal LBWSG exposures distributions should have more deaths, which will not be captured here. 
```

However, after reviewing the changes in population distribution between 

> birth and 6 months in GBD data, we found this impact to be very minimal, and 

Reviewer: I think it would be great to add a link to a page that shows this and/or state the magnitude of differences here! We might want to revisit these numbers at some point as we're discussing the limitation :)

therefore believe this is a reasonable limitation. Additionally, 
overall mortality will still be at a subnational level, further 
mitigating these effects. 

Data Inputs: 
^^^^^^^^^^^^

Once a simulant is assigned to a subnational location, most GBD data used 
will be subnational specific data. LBWSG, which comes as an output from the 
pregnancy sim, will be national. Similarly, the PAFs for LBWSG will also 
be national. All other GBD data will be at the subnational level.

Artifacts will be made for all subnational 
geographies. We will also regenerate data for all custom made datasets, 
such as wasting transitions, PAFs, and CGF correlation, at the subnational 

> level. 

Reviewer 3: Please make sure some visual inspection of the geographic variation in these values in our V&V plan.

> SAM and MAM treatmet coverage and efficacy data will continue to be national only. Also, 

Reviewer 3: Let's brainstorm strategies to go beyond this assumption.  I think it could be a valuable addition to our model, and the data for Ethiopia might be included in the stuff that Latera has been calling our attention to (which I have now formally requested).

Reviewer: We are also using a summary national-level value for coverage from the Isanaka paper that we are currently using as our data source. we won't have full geographic coverage, but we might be able to glean something from that data source. Overall though, I expect modeling this at the subnational level (except maybe for Ethiopia?) will be difficult due to data availability.

for all scenarios other than targeted SQ-LNS, roll out of interventions will 
be the same for all subnational locations.

.. todo::

>   Revisit this paragraph once we have decided about SQ-LNS effect modification. Add either that it is national or subnational. 

Reviewer 3: We decided to include, right?

Author: We are hoping to include it but we decided it depends a bit on the data and is a "nice to have" not a "need to have". Were planning to investigate creating this with the data we have and/or reach out to UC Davis. I want to leave this until we are confident in the strategy.

for the `percent of simulants assigned to each subnational location by sex <https://github.com/ihmeuw/vivarium_research_nutrition_optimization/blob/ff08145109e1434669f08afe702ffc5e3d45a6c2/data_prep/sqlns_subnational/subnational_percents.csv>`_. Note that all 3 countries are included 
in this csv file. 

Since LBWSG is done nationally, there is a risk in assigning locations 

> at birth that they will be incorrect by 6 months of age. Subnational 

Reviewer: I think it would be more clear to state that the "population-distribution of subnational locations" will be incorrect rather than the locations themselves in this sentence.
